Okay Gordon, we don't know who you are and what you do but basically could you just tell
us how you became involved with AggieCon and you became a chairman of whatever it was?
Well four years ago I joined Sefford three weeks before AggieCon 11.
I worked two movies and then AggieCon was the next week and basically I was just to
go for it that one.
And the following year I was assistant house manager for Sefford variable and that's the
organization that sponsors AggieCon and I was an assistant house manager at the convention.
That was for the night films and the following year I was the full house manager for both
and this year our chairman resigned his position in mid-October and I took over for him in
mid-October and the majority of the work like about 90% of it has been done since then.
Okay you mentioned people like house manager and assistant house manager.
The house managers we have two house managers at AggieCon one of them is the night films
house manager.
They're responsible for making sure that the movies that we show in the auditorium run
smoothly and that we have workers there to keep an eye on the audience.
The day house manager is responsible for getting people where they belong during the daytime
at each one of the events we have scheduled.
And the assistants will just be obviously assisting them.
Well can you just a little bit more about what's Sefford variable?
Sefford variable is a science fiction and fantasy committee.
It's out of the student programs office here on campus and because we are a committee we
do programming through the student programs office.
Some of the other clubs on campus do their own activities and programming just for their
own members but we program for the entire university as well as AggieCon which is for
people who aren't even members of the university.
In other words AggieCon is really done totally by students at the university.
About 95% of the officers this year are students at the university.
They don't have to be.
We have a few who are not.
Most of them are like we have one former student we have one person who is laying out for a
few semesters while he works and that way he can become a Texas resident and not have
to pay out of state tuition.
And Becky Matthews who is one of our guests we kind of count her as a member of the convention
committee because she was chairman of AggieCon 11 and has helped us with the roast program
this year.
Okay could you tell me just a little bit about the history behind AggieCon like how many years
you've been in existence and what the original input is for us?
Okay AggieCon number one so far as I know was not originally called AggieCon.
It was just called the Texas A&M science fiction convention or something to that effect.
And they just decided it would be real fun to invite an author down and have a little
miniature convention that lasted two days and I think they showed three films.
I saw a report on AggieCon four.
I think AggieCon three was the first one that was called AggieCon.
I saw a report on number four.
They took in a total of $800 and spent $400 and they had two guests and showed six films
total.
And that was about all the programming they had.
And since then we have moved onward and upward to better and better things to where this
year we have 30 guests.
We're showing eight major films at night.
We have films running all day long and we have the panels and the readings.
And our budget this year is something like to take in $15,000 and to spend around $14,000
was what was budgeted.
You speak of budget does that mean does that come from people who are registered from any
school health or what?
So far as the budget is concerned we have to write up our own budget because we are an
agency of the state of Texas.
So that's a variable being a committee here at the university is a part of the state and
it's real funny because we have to turn in our budgets a year in advance before we actually
even know how we did it this year's convention as in the budget for next year has already
been submitted.
Okay, the planning of it, how do you start planning one, like when one convention ends
do you start planning the next year immediately?
How far ahead do you have to work?
We have already sent out some letters this year asking if people would like to be guests
at AgiCon 15.
Some of those went out last month as a matter of fact.
So they really they actually overlap.
Okay, how do you look for a when you plan the Agicon I guess the committee does the overall
planning right?
Do you look for a balance between authors, artists, you know other kinds of people or
does it just simply anybody we can get will take?
Well usually what we like to do is there are some authors here in Texas as well as some
artists who are kind of like traditionalists at Agicon.
They've been coming for several years.
We try and invite all of them and usually most of them will come come down here.
So far as our major guests, we have the guest of honor and we have a special guest.
This year we were going to have co-guests of honor.
We're going to have Anne McCaffrey as well as Harry Harrison, but Anne had to back out
because of medical problems.
Harry Harrison was then left as our only guest of honor, which in the past we've only had
one.
We have our special guest.
Like I said, we have a toast master.
This year is Dr. Chad Oliver from the University of Texas and he will be presenting a program
at the banquet this evening.
He said he'd give us 15 minutes of wit and humor.
And we have our artist guest of honor.
In addition this year we have Don Punshott and Real Musgrave who are actually on the
guest lineup.
We do have some other professional artists that are here.
They are not guests, but we have Dale Harris and there's two or three others.
I can't remember their names at the moment that are here with work on display in the
We have one person serving on panels, Ms. Victoria Wheeler, who is very good at artwork
and stuff.
I would think she'd be termed a fan artist.
And she appears on both of our art panels and she is a dealer in the dealer's room.
So far as the rest of it, this year we have really tried to do more stuff for the artists
than we ever have in the past.
Usually we have like one panel, the amateur art contest, the auction and that's about
it.
And this year we've programmed two panels on art.
We again have the auction and the contest.
We have more judges for the contest this year than we've had in the past.
Okay, what have you found to be the biggest problem in running this or planning it?
The fact that all of the officers are students and we all have our homework here from the
university plus all of the paperwork that is required.
And I think the only reason that was a real problem at this convention was because none
of the paperwork was done when I took over in mid-October.
I ended up having to do the majority of the paperwork I and my officers at that point.
Do you know how this convention compares in my guess size and other conventions in Texas?
Well, we have been billed as the largest annual science fiction conventions so far as attendance
is concerned.
Overall I do believe that we have a larger attendance if you count both the one day passes
as well as the full convention passes than what other science fiction conventions have.
A lot of that is probably due to the students here on campus.
But we do bring in quite a few outside individuals.
For instance, this year we had 60 non-student convention passes for the full convention
that were sold in advance.
That means before March 1st.
Do you have any idea what the attendance at this one was?
At this particular convention, I know that right now we have a lot.
Last night we sold all day yesterday as a total.
We sold over a thousand one day passes.
And I believe that the full convention passes if you add up the students and the non-students
is probably over 500 right now.
You sort of answered this and obviously I know the answer to it too but maybe a lot of the people who listen to the show don't.
Could you just briefly sort of classify the different activities that a fan coming to the convention would have?
Okay, if you come to the convention there of course are the movies.
I believe they have movies just about every science fiction convention.
We have the dealer's room which you can find just about anything and everything in there.
From books to weapons to posters and other kind of paraphernalia from movies and the world of fantasy.
We have the artists and the authors.
They sit on panels.
Some of the authors do readings for us.
We had a NASA presentation yesterday.
We have had one of those for the past three years and we consider that to be pretty regular at this convention.
We're having a slideshow this afternoon on Don Pinchots' artwork.
And we try to have an art slideshow or at least we've been trying to for the past three years.
We have the two movie companies that are here, Disney and Columbia Pictures that are promoting films.
And I believe that since I've been here at AggieCon 12 I believe we didn't have any movie promotions.
But at 11 and 13 and at this one we have had movie promotions.
We have trivia quizzes.
We have the amateur art contest.
We have the art auction as well as other stuff that's auctioned off.
This year we had the world premiere performance of Mr. Harry Harrison's play.
That is a first as far as I know.
We also have the pro art gallery where pro artists can display their work and the fans can come and look at it.
We have an autograph session, a guest reception.
Plus you can usually find the guests down in the party room if they're not doing anything else.
And let's see.
There's the banquet itself which people can go to.
The masquerade we have.
And there's the Neil Barrett Jr. roast this year.
And last year we had the Chad Oliver roast.
And I don't remember if we had a roast program the year before that.
But it looks like we're starting a tradition because at A&M if you do anything twice it's a tradition.
We're just a little bit more about this stuff.
This stuff of variable.
That is a student committee.
That means that a club is science fiction club.
It started off as a club.
On campus I believe you have to have at least 10 students interested in an activity that can find an advisor and you've got a club.
And they set you up with an account here in the student finance office.
You take in funds, you spend money.
It's all recorded on paper.
I think back before we became an actual committee, the difference in a committee being that the committees get some of their funding from the student service fees here on campus.
Because those student service fees go for programming for all of the students on campus.
And whereas clubs program for their members, the committees program for the entire campus.
For everyone at the university.
And some of the other committees are MSC Aggie Cinema who programs all films except those dealing with science fiction and fantasy.
There is Town Hall who they arrange for the concerts that we have over in G. Raleigh White Coliseum.
There's Opus who arranges...
What is Opus down for?
Something in performing arts society. I forget what the O is but you can probably look it up and fill in in this spot.
They arrange for concerts and stage, some of the stage productions and stuff like that.
There's an outdoor recreation committee. There's a regular recreation committee.
Several other excellent committees that do programming here on campus.
And the basic difference is we program for the whole university, a club just programs for itself.
In other words, really set the variable and the reason now for its existence is to work all year gearing up for AggieCon.
That's our reason for being.
That's our major reason for being. However, we also program all year long.
We show science fiction fantasy films here on campus.
And we are a meeting place for science fiction fantasy fans here on campus.
Also, on occasion, we do send delegates to other conventions within the state as well as outside the state.
Usually in the summertime though because most of our students are busy during the fall and spring.
Can you recall just briefly a list of the ones you remember your guests of honor or special guests from the past?
I'm a real bad person to ask about this.
Last year we had Roger Zalassny as our guest of honor and Fred Saber-Hagan was our special guest.
Beyond that, I draw a complete blank even though I was here.
We do have some old program books from our past conventions. We try and keep a collection of those.
Anyone who's interested can certainly come up here or they could call us and we can get the information for them.
Anytime they were interested, I do believe that AggieCon 7 was the first convention that actually had a program book.
All of the others just kind of had a little schedule that was printed up on like one sheet of paper and put out.
What about your part for next year?
Next year I will be here just one semester.
I will be here all summer attending the university. I will be here next fall.
I'm supposed to be graduating at the end of next fall. That will be one semester late.
I will be around to help next year's chairman if they have any questions or if next year's officers have any questions.
Also, I have two other responsibilities this year. One of them is to round up all of the information that we have on this year's convention
and give that to next year's officers so that they can use it in planning next year's convention.
The second item I have to do is to write up a financial report for the convention and turn that in.
Are you a serious science fiction fan? Are most of the people in 7 variable that way?
Are they just in it for the social aspect?
Both really. The majority of the people in there are really interested in science fiction.
I myself am very interested in science fiction and fantasy.
It is a pretty nice social atmosphere also.
The majority of the people in the committee are real good friends and we get along real well.
Do you have any overall opinion of the whole experience as it works?
Is it a hassle?
I would say that no one should criticize the way a science fiction fantasy convention is run
until they have been on my end of the deal.
Because until you have tried to set one of these things up you really don't have any understanding as to what it takes to do so.
All of the paperwork and all of the correspondence that has to be done.
It really is a very big job and I am sure that this year I could not have done it without the help of all of my officers.
Is it worth it?
It is worth it. Especially when things go right.
It's nice to have the office and the guests and pretty nice people aren't they?
We have gotten a lot of compliments from them this year. They are all very nice.
A lot of them have complimented us saying this is a very good convention.
David, Bill, you people? How many people are in your group that are working on a convention?
We have our member right, 16 officers, 8 of those have assistants.
We have probably 10 of what we termed gophers which means general officer for everything ridiculous.
Basically they are the peons in your organization that go and do everything that the rest of us don't have time for.
As far as workers at the convention, just general committee members that worked are probably another 10 to 20 of those.
What is the Cepheid variable?
Oh, I am sorry, what is it?
A Cepheid variable is a pulsating star which there is one in the Cephas star system.
If you look at it, it will appear to grow brighter and dimmer and occasionally change colors.
That is where we took our name from.
Also our regular committee t-shirts that the Cepheid variable people wear is kind of a play on some of the Greek fraternities.
We took the letters delta sci-fi meaning changing science fiction for us here on campus that are interested in mathematics.
That sort of fits that very well.
Probably the only other thing I would like to add is that for Agicon it tends to be real difficult from year to year for us sometimes.
Generally we do have almost a complete officer turnover from year to year.
Definitely every four years when the people who were here three years ago or four years ago graduate, you lose a lot of really valuable people that know what is going on.
This year I actually have six of my 16 officers or freshmen this year and have never even attended a science fiction convention before.
Do sometimes the alumni come back and help a little bit with the X Cepheid variable?
Yeah, I said earlier we have Becky Matthews who was chairman of Agicon 11.
Also Steve Gould who is one of our guests was a member of Cepheid variable and I believe he was a chairman at one of the conventions also.
Yeah, okay is there anything else you can think of?
Nothing I know of right now.
I know you're a pretty busy person.
Yeah, I should probably get back.
They're going to be opening up the dealer's room if they haven't already.
I appreciate it very much.
I appreciate your help getting us the room and everything.
Listen, we'll send you tapes for this.
Sure.